[MUSIC]
>> John Kuperman: Let's do a quick
walk-through of all the panels,
get to know what they're good for,
things like that.
And you can feel free to
ask any questions, but
do know that we are gonna do a deep dive
into each one of the panels as we go.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
open up the developer tools on my project.
>> John Kuperman: Which is here and
I'm wanna keep them as large as I can.
There might be times just because there's
a lot of competing information, so there
may be times I have to make them a little
bit smaller just to show the whole screen.
But we'll go ahead and
start with the elements panel.
So this is what we talked
about at the beginning.
I should actually cover For
those that I have never used them
before the way to open the dev tools.
You have a couple of choices.
You can right click anywhere on
the document and click inspect and
that will open them up.
There's also a handy keyboard shortcuts.
Like I always use a Command+Optioned+J
to open them up in the console and
there's like Command+Option+I
open them up in the elements.
And that's I think it's ctrl+shift+J and
I for Linux and Windows users.
That's how I get it open.
The elements panels,
the first one we gonna talk about and
this is basically what we
discussed at the beginning.
So this is like an interpreted Dom and
it's really cool.
You can do a ton of stuff
that will cover later.
You can kind of drill into
all the markup on your site.
You can see comments classes.
You can change stuff by
double clicking into it.
And so that's all the markup and
HTML on the left.
And then on the right is all the CSS that
applies, and again, really interactive.
You can change the actual selector,
you can change properties,
you can add new properties, and we're
gonna do a bunch of stuff with that later.
There's also a lot of other things
here which are really handy.
We're gonna cover computed styles in
depth, but you can see all the event
listeners on your current page
which can be really nice.
So you can see like what's
listening on click and
you can see that bootstrap.js says
I don't know I'm a slow counter but
maybe 12 different click listeners and
you can look at those.
We'll cover dom break points later, but
you can do some pretty cool
debugging stuff from here.
And then same with like properties.
You can take a look at like all
the different, pseudo elements,
all the different ,regular
elements ,nodes things like that.
So that's the elements page.
Probably the most or
second most common used panel to
sketch your HTML and your CSS.
The next one is the network panel.
There's kind of a lot going on here and
we will talk a ton about it.
But basically, if you do a page
refresh with the network panel open,
you get this really handy waterfall
which is essentially every
single HTTP request that
is made as the page loads.
So you can see if we kind of
make this a little bit bigger,
you can see that the very first
thing to load was a document.
So this is our HTML.
And then it calls out to a stylesheet.
So you can kind of get this waterfall
visual of like how the page is
downloaded and then parsed, right.
So it hits the CSS first,
cuz that's at the top in the head, and
then as we kind of scroll down later,
it hits the JavaScript.
So there's a lot here.
Basically, it's just kind of giving you
this visual representation of how your
page loads and from there, you can sort
it in a bunch of different ways like just
see the JavaScript,
just see the CSS stuff like that.
Cool, the next one is the sources panel.
This is where we gonna get started
with learning how to use dev tools
as your IDE or your editor.
It actually looks a lot like an editor.
So you have your file tree over here and
then you have your actual file pane and
you can do things like
command P to open a file.
So I can open like style.css.
And then just we expect in a text editor.
You have all the abilities to edit and
here.
There's also this right panel which we're
gonna talk about in the debugging section.
This isn't used for authoring code.
This is actually used for step through
debugging and things like that,
so we will get to that but
in the next section.
The next one is the timeline.
The timeline, is probably gonna be the one
that we spend the most time on because it
is the one with more features.
Essentially, just to give you a quick
view of it right now, you can start
a recording, you can do what ever you
want, scroll around and click on stuff.
Then you can hit on stop and
it gives you just a tone of information.
So, basically it allows you to capture
all the network request, do a JAVAscript
profile, gets screenshots of how your site
loads, capture memory, and screen repaint.
So basically as the years have gone on,
more and
more features have made their
way into the timeline panel.
And it's become in my opinion
the most powerful of the panels,
because it actually has,
network has its own tab,
but you can get your network
requests right here in timeline.
Profiles lets you do memory stuff, but
you can get memory stuff
right here in timeline.
So I think we'll probably spend
the most time looking at all
this complicated information.
Profiles are cool.
They let you do f one off.
You can record the JavaScript CPU, and
what we're gonna do with that is we're
gonna be able to look at and find like
what are most expensive functions are?
Where a web app is spending the most time.
You can get this bottom-up
view of all of your code.
Same with memory.
It allows you to take these
heap snapshots which is all
of the stuff the browser has in memory for
your current page.
And it actually lets you compare them,
too.
So if you're looking at memory leaks,
which we'll do later,
you can take a heap snapshot and
then you can do the action.
Send a tweet or
click on somebody's Facebook profile.
Whatever you think is
causing your memory leak,
then you can take another heap
snapshot and you can compare them.
We’ll do that.
And then yeah,
you can do these cool things with
like look at all the allocation.
And allocation is just like memory
allocated and what it's allocated for.,
So in programming, every time you make
a variable or add an event listener in
JavaScript, all these different
things take some amount of memory.
So we'll be able to look at specifically
what our web app is using and
debug from there, whether it should
be freeing that memory up or not.
Console, probably the second or
first most popular tab.
It gives you an interactive
JavaScript REPL.
REPL is read, evaluate, print, loop.
So you can just type JavaScript code in,
console.log, hello.
And it will evaluate it and
spit it back out for you.
So you can see the hello here.
You can do a lot of stuff in here.
Interacting with elements
from the page is pretty cool.
You can do,
yeah I guess we'll cover it in a bit but
you can do a lot more than
just execute JavaScript code.
But this is also where if
you put any console log or
console error console warn
in your code and you run it,
this is the tab you'll go to
to see what's going on there.
Audits are great.
This is like a much more high level view.
So we took a quick glimpse at some of
the really technical tabs like network and
timeline where you're seeing all
these graphs and statistics.
Audit is like a much more top level
you run an audit on your site and
it gives you some intelligent advice like
it'll say your images are too big or
you have too many CSS files,
stuff like that.
So I find this is a really nice place to
start because you're not really diving
into the thick of it.
You're just kind of looking at some
easy low hanging fruit that you can fix.
And then the last two
are actually both new.
For those that have used the dev tools,
up until last week,
you are probably familiar with
the resources panel which is now gone.
It's still in Chrome stable,
but it's gone in Chrome Canary.
And it's been replaced with
this application panel.
Application's pretty cool.
What resources did for those that
didn't know is it allowed you to view
all of the basically allocated
storage on your website.
Cookies, session data, anybody that's
using a cool, I don't know if you've used
index db before but it's like an in
browser database that you can use.
So resources used to be like
the place to go if you wanted to see
like if your session was
being set correctly or
how much data was being kept in your
cookies or something like that.
All that's still here in applications.
So you can look through and
see if you have any data in here.
But now it also has support for
two different things which are we're
not really gonna covered in depth about
service workers which allow you to
build apps that can work offline.
And app manifests which is this
idea coming from Google which
allows you to have this little
metadata for your application.
And if you have one of
those on Android devices,
you can save web pages as though
they're apps to your home screen.
So it's kind of this way
that things are moving.
So all that's f been added
to this new application tab,
which I'm very happy about because
researches was my least favorite panel.
That wasn't super useful before.
And then the last one is also
new is a security panel.
And so this is just really
going to tell you two things.
Do you have an SSL certificate,
which I don't on this local server, and
it's gonna tell you that you should.
And then also for those familiar with
security, just because you have an HTTPS
for your site, it doesn't mean every
asset on the site is over HTTPS.
So think for example,
if you have a website on HP's and
you're pulling some JavaScript from a CDN,
that's just H-T-T-P.
Or you're including a video and
I frame would be really dangerous.
So this gonna tell you,
does your site have it which you could
just look up here and see if you have it.
But it's also gonna look
at all the assets and
make sure that every single one of
those assets is a cell enabled.
So yeah, so
that's the really high level overview.
We are gonna definitely talk a lot
about each one of those tabs.
I just wanted to give you a feel for
what they do.
Another cool thing in Canary,
I'm not sure if it's in Stable yet.
But you can actually drag these
tabs around now and they persist.
So you can set them in whatever
order you would like them to be in.
And this is particularly annoying for
me because Console was
always really far away.
And I remember at Twitter, all of
our automated tests would run in and
I'm gonna show you this real quick.
This little three buttons up here
allows you to pin them differently.
So you can pin,
the dev tools come pinned to the bottom.
You can pin them to the side like this or
you can pop them out into your
own full screen like this.
Use your own discretion and you know
whatever you need screen space wise.
On Twitter, our test would run like
this and Console was too far off that
I couldn't click on it so I couldn't
see any of my Console log errors.
So I love that you can drag these
around now cuz if you need Console,
just drag it to the very beginning and
you'll have it there.
So yeah,
there's some other stuff we'll cover.
You can take a look at
the keyboard shortcuts.
There's all sorts of cool settings.
We're gonna get into experiments later
which allows you to actually try out
the stuff that they're actively developing
which is where we may see some crashes,
but it'll be fun.
And then I think the last
thing I wanted to talk
about in this overview
is actually over here.
Let me close this little settings
here which is device simulation.
This is one thing that's gonna look
dramatically different on Chrome Stable
from Chrome Canary.
But basically, this allows you
to go into this emulation mode.
Let me go ahead and I'm gonna, one thing I
do a lot is I'll pop the dev tools out so
they're full screen.
And then I use Cmd+~ to
toggle just to Chrome.
So the DevTools are open but
they're hidden right now.
So basically, this allows you
to simulate different devices.
It’s really good for testing how
your Apple look, on a mobile device.
It’s not perfect, so
I always wanna put that caveat out there.
If you care about mobile users,
which you certainly should,
you really need to be
testing on real devices.
That being said,
this gets you pretty far away.
So you can pick a device like an iPhone 6.
You can pick how wide
you'd like to view it.
So 100% of an iPhone 6 would be this.
And then it's cool,
you can interact with it a lot.
One thing that's important to point
out is that this is not just changing
the view port.
It’s actually changing the headers
that your site throws.
So for example, if I were to go to I think
like twitter.com throwing this iPhone 6,
it's actually gonna, far as I can
see redirect to mobile.twitter.com.
So it's not the same as dragging
your browser really small,
which changes the view port.
This is actually throwing the same
headers that iPhone 6 will throw.
So you can get apretty close experience.
With that being said I mean,
this is just emulation.
It’s not actually using a device.
Cool so yeah, I use that a lot.
You can change it from panorama
mode back and forth and
then you can like also even do things
like a responsive design mode.
This is there on just a web header.
But from here,
you can drag your site around and
see how it performs at
different breakpoints.
So I'm gonna click this again to stop
device emulation and then we go ahead.
I'm gonna pin these back
to the bottom here.